In this video you're going to integrate a single weight into the to do API.
Now if you don't have that project around or yours isn't working you can go ahead and download the lecture
downloads for this section which I have right here.
And if you crack that open there's going to be two folders before and after after contains the final
code for this video and before it contains the starter project.
So if you do want to use this you can just drag it wherever you're going to set it up and you can go
ahead and crack that open in your editor and we'll go through making the changes in here.
I'm going to do that right now.
Real quickly switching the editor over to that folder.
And I am going to be doing the exact same thing with the terminal
perfect.
Now I remember the node to do API.
It also requires the database to be running in order to work as expected.
So make sure to crack that open in a tab.
Now you know yourself better than me.
So if this command didn't work for you previously in the course it's probably not going to work for
you now.
So I would recommend going with the exact same command you had used before.
All right.
Once the database is up and we have our project set up we can just run NPM test here.
We can see we are getting an issue Moka not found NPM install is going to fix that.
So once the dependencies are installed I'm just going to run the test command real quick to make sure
everything is working and then we're going to start making some changes to the project code.
Now most of our code lives inside of Cervidae.
S.
So this is where we're going to make a lot of the changes.
If we scroll all the way to the bottom we can get started with some of the easier routes right here
for example.
We have our users me token route.
This allows someone to log out they can delete a given token and they have to be authenticated in order
to do that.
What we're going to do is go ahead and make this in a sync function.
We'll be able to await this promise and do whatever we need to do in the background.
I am going to run NPM test which should work now that I have my dependencies correctly installed.
And here we go we are going through the entire test suite.
Everything is working as expected and in the end of the day all 22 Tests are passing.
So make sure you have this as well.
Otherwise the changes we make might not work but we are going to get started right now.
Tweaking this code.
As always we're going to change a couple of routes together and then there'll be a few for you to do
on your own as a challenge.
We're going to start with this one together.
This is a simple one so it will allow us to get our feet wet if we want to make this function a sink.
What do we do.
We have to tag it as an async function right here.
I'm going to add that on.
Now we know that when we market function as a sink we are changing the function instead of returning
values we're returning a promise.
So you're probably asking if this is going to affect how Express handles this route.
And it's not express doesn't use the return value that comes back.
Currently we are implicitly returning undefined since we don't have the return keyword anywhere by tagging
it as a sink.
We are just implicitly returning a promise that resolves undefined.
This is going to have no meaningful impact on the application.
But it is it will allow us to restructure this using a weight.
And that's exactly what we're going to do now in this particular situation we actually don't get any
value back.
We are removing a token and we need to do is know whether it succeeded or failed in the past.
We haven't run into the situation.
That means there is no need to create a concert like this because there is no value we want back.
We just want to await remove tokin to complete.
We don't care what it sends back.
All we need to know is whether it succeeded or failed.
And if it succeeded what are we going to do.
We're just going to respond with the 200 like we have right here.
The last thing to do is add a case if removed token does throw an error and we know we're just going
to use a try catch for that.
So I'll take this code and put it inside of a try block then we can catch any potential errors that
get thrown in.
And as we see down below all we do is send back a 400 so we can take that line and move it up above.
Now we can remove everything we had previously and we now have an async function for the users me token
route.
I'm on a save Server database and rerun that test suite to make sure the application is still working
as expected.
Now this was a simple one but it let us really figure out how to use a sync with Express really easy
stuff.
We're going to move on to this one next which has a bit more complexity here.
We are using to promise based methods find by credentials and generate auth token.
So this is a better example of where a single weight really comes in handy.
All the tests passed.
So let's go ahead and move on to this guy.
Step one.
Tagging it as an async function.
There we go.
Step two is adding in our weight calls.
Now we still want to get a body and we actually don't change that body.
So this could be a contest.
I'm going to switch that up then we're going to go ahead and await this promise right here this time
we are expecting a value back.
So we will create a variable for that value.
Konst user equals and then we're just going to paste in the exact same code we had before.
Now we do need to await this attack the Awake keyword on and that brings us to this part of the function
here we call user data generate auth token that returns a promise and this is where we continue the
chain since we're using async await.
That just means we're going to await this promise appear for here.
I will create a variable token which matches up with this one and I will await the exact same promise.
Now that we have both of the promises completed we can move on to this code which sets the X header
to the token that was generated and it responds with the user object.
I'm going to go ahead and take this line and move it right here.
Now the final step is to catch those errors we already have the error handler code.
All we need to do is actually set up the try catch.
I'm going to take all of this cut it out move it inside of a try block and tack on that catch block
then I can add my error handler code and I can remove everything we had previously.
And in this example we have a much more readable function.
It's a lot easier to figure out exactly what's going on when things go well and when things go poorly.
So integrating a sink into your existing applications.
It's not something you need to do all at once as you create a new app or as you modify an old app.
You can just slowly start integrating it into the parts of the code that you end up editing adding or
changing.
If you have some code that you haven't touched in a while and it's working well you don't necessarily
need to switch it up with a sync.
Right now though you absolutely could.
Now that we've changed this one I'm going to save server dot J S and rerun the test suite one more time
just to make sure all of the tests are indeed passing.
If they are we're going to move on to a challenge where you're going to have to do the exact same thing
for two other routes.
So up above what we're gonna do is start with the post users route.
I want you to convert this over to an async await based function.
Now here we have two promises.
We have the one that comes back from save.
And we have the one that comes back from generate auth token you're going to need to go ahead and move
both of these over to a weight.
And you're also going to need to make sure to do the correct thing when everything goes well and when
things go poorly.
So I'll put a little comment right here to convert this one to a sink a way if we scroll up a little
more we're going to get to the Delete to do by D1.
I'd also like you to go ahead and knock this one out.
Converting this over to a single way to do convert to a sink.
Oh wait.
Now yes there are indeed other ones in the code.
We have quite a few different methods and these could all get converted.
But for the sake of just keeping this video useful We're going to go with these two.
That will give you all of the hard ones and you can always go through the other easier ones on your
own.
So take some time to fix the delete by id route and down below the creating a user route when you are
done.
Go ahead and rerun your test suite and make sure everything is working as expected.
Pause the video then click play.
All right.
Hopefully you're starting to get into a rhythm by now.
We're going to kick things off by tagging this one as a sink.
And then we're going to start digging in to the actual code down below.
Now once again body doesn't change so this could have technically been a contest and same thing with
bar.
Change this over to a concert as well.
That wasn't necessary for the challenge but I'm here so I might as well tweak things a little bit.
Double-O we have our first promise the one that comes back from calling Save and in this case what do
we do.
We don't do anything.
So there is no need to create a variable.
We can simply await user datt save before moving on.
Now inside of there what do we do.
The next thing we do is we generate a token.
This time we do get a value back.
We get the token we just created which means we are going to want to make variable Konst token equals.
We are going to await what are we going to await.
We're going to await this guy right here.
I'm going to take it copy and paste it.
Now we can move on to the success handler which is just to run a single line.
We're going to take that line verbatim and put it right there.
And finally we need to handle those errors.
We already have the error handling code.
We just need to set up the try catch block
I'm going to set up try catch.
I'm going to paste all of the code I wrote up here in the try block.
I'm going to paste this error handler code down here inside of the catch block.
And with that in place we now have our post users route converted to async away so we can go ahead and
remove that comment.
So that was the first of two routes and this was the hard Awam and to go ahead and rerun the test suite
to make sure everything is still working as expected and if it is we'll be able to move on to that final
route which is the route up above to delete an individual to do by its ID all 22 tests passed.
So let's continue on right here.
I'm going to mark this one as a sink and we're going to start the conversion process now down below.
You can see we just have one promise we await.
Find one and remove.
And do we get something back.
Yes we do.
We go ahead and we get that to do back.
That means we can create a cost right here.
We can call that one to do and we can set it equal to and we're going to await the following.
I'm going to take this copy and paste it.
Now this could also be switched over to a concert since ID is not something that we reassign or change
down below.
We can now move on to the code that goes inside of the success case Remember find one and remove it
could potentially be successful without having actually removed anything.
That's why we check if there was it to do or not.
So I'm going to take all of this code including the end if cut and paste it right here.
Now what's left.
The only thing left is to handle the errors that could have potentially gotten thrown right here.
So we're going to take this code.
We're going to move into a try block and we're going to tot's a catch block on the end then we can take
our air handler which is just one line and move it up above.
That's going to allow us to remove all of this old code and rerun the test suite hoping and crossing
our fingers that everything is working as expected.
Before I do I am going to remove that to do comment.
Now let's rerun the test suite for the final time and see if the application is still working.
Right here it looks like everything is working so far and there we go.
We have 22 test cases passing.
So at this point I'm hoping that you understand how to use a sink a weight inside of their applications.
Remember you want to think of this as an enhancement to the promises API.
So when you're working with promises and you find yourself getting into some complex changing situations
just take a step back and think about how you could restructure that with a sink.
Once again don't get yourself all worried about changing all of your code over right away.
Coode changes all the time.
New features come up.
Yes it's a good idea to use them but there's no need to waste 10 hours refactoring a project that's
working perfectly fine.
I recommend refactoring as you go.
So as you edit an old project as you're making changes to various functions and adding new features
just switch things over to using a sync away when you're creating a new project.
Obviously it's a pretty good idea to use async away from the beginning.
Hopefully you are seeing the advantages that it brings.
It allows us to write code that is indeed a synchronous in a way that looks synchronous that allows
us to just read through the lines one at a time and figure out exactly what's going on.
All right that is it for this new section on async Oh wait if you're looking for a stretch challenge
I recommend trying to convert every single usage of promises in this application over to async away.
That includes things in server server Dom test and the other files you're going to use the exact same
technique we used here and the same technique we used over inside of our other examples.
The currency converter and the app promises example feel free to keep this code around and use it as
a reference.
A new syntax like this one can be a little tricky to remember but once you get a little bit of practice
it'll come second nature.
All right that's it for now.
I'll see you next time.